Feature/1 delete files (#2)
cloudogu/confluence-temp-delete-job: docs/developing_en.md

# develop confluence-temp-delete-job

> This document describes developmen-centric aspects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes development-centric aspects.
```

## Tools

Needed:

- Docker
- Go compiler (currently 1.15.x)

## Helpful scripts

For testing on a real file system, these functions and settings can help.

**Debug output:**

> With a log-level of `debug` single file and directory views become transparent. However, depending on the amount of files and directories looked at, an obscene amount of data is generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a log-level of `debug` single file and directory views become transparent. However, depending on the number of files and directories looked at, an obscene amount of data is generated:
```

Therefore, the `delete-loop` command generally does not terminate. Exceptions are `panics` and Unix system signals, which are intercepted and handled in a dedicated manner:
- `SIGINT` (Ctrl+C is pressed during execution)
- `SIGHUP`
- `SIGTERM`
- (`SIGKILL` cannot be intercepted by the program, because it terminates the whole process)

The cycle is enabled by [`time.Ticker`](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#Ticker). The spacing of the individual intervals is specified as minutes on the CLI side. However, internally this is calculated back and forth between seconds and minutes to allow for fast unit tests.

### Deletion in two phases

The deletion routine of `tempdel` is essentially based on [`filepath.Walk`](https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Walk). In it, a file tree is walked recursively (and alphabetically, to act deterministically).

The nature of Confluence temp files is still unclear. Therefore, a single delete operation consists of two phases:

1. recursively delete files older than desired.
1. recursively delete directories that are left empty.

> The two-phase approach has the advantage of deleting old directories that may contain new files. A complicating factor is that a file deletion updates the file stamp of a directory. Therefore the 1st phase is limited only to files. In the 2nd phase then exclusively empty directories are deleted, since on their timestamp no more reliance is anyway because of the file delete update.

Reviewer: No entiendo :)

```suggestion
The two-phase approach has the advantage of deleting old directories that may contain new files. A complicating factor is that a file deletion updates the file stamp of a directory. Therefore the 1st phase is limited only to files. In the 2nd phase, only empty directories are deleted, since their timestamps can no longer be relied upon anyway due to the file delete update.
```

> Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)

Reviewer: Achso :dagger:

Author: LOL I remove id.

Author: done.
